# IndiaLaw-Q-A-Intelligent-Legal-Guidance

IndiaLaw Q&A is a project focused on building an intelligent chatbot for providing legal guidance on the Indian legal system. This repository contains the code and resources required to develop, deploy, and interact with the chatbot.

# Introduction

IndiaLaw Q&A uses powerful AI technology to develop a conversational interface that can initiate and maintain conversations with users, delivering smooth and intuitive legal advice. IndiaLaw Q&A provides exact and contextually relevant responses to legal questions by leveraging the power of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) with the Recursive Abstractive Processing for Tree Organized Retrieval (RAPTOR) indexing approach and the Milvus vector database. RAPTOR is an innovative and powerful indexing and retrieval strategy for LLMs that takes a bottom-up approach, grouping and summarizing text segments (chunks) to create a hierarchical tree structure. This intelligent chatbot is designed with Streamlit to provide a user-friendly experience for a variety of use cases in the Indian legal system.


Here, we used legal books as input data for our analysis. Each PDF file is over 300 pages. The PDF links for these books are provided below.:
* [Family Law](https://lawfaculty.du.ac.in/userfiles/downloads/LLBCM/Ist%20Term_Family%20Law-%20I_LB105_2023.pdf)
* [Administrative Law](https://lawfaculty.du.ac.in/userfiles/downloads/LLBCM/IVth%20Term_Administrative%20Law_LB%20402_2023.pdf)
* [Labour Law](https://www.icsi.edu/media/webmodules/Labour_Laws&_Practice.pdf)

# Getting Started
1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/IndiaLaw-Q-A-Intelligent-Legal-Guidance.git
   cd IndiaLaw-Q-A-Intelligent-Legal-Guidance
   ```
2. Install the libraries:
   ```
   pip install the requirements.txt
   ```
3. Configuration
   1. Set Environment Variables:
      Open config.env or set environment variables directly in your terminal.
      ```
      export GROQ_API_KEY='your_groq_api_key'
      export COHERE_API_KEY='your_cohere_api_key'
      
      ```

4. Running the Application
   1. Launch Streamlit:
      ```
      streamlit run app.py
      ```
   2. Use the Chatbot:
      Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:8501 (default Streamlit port).
      You will see the chat interface titled "💬IndiaLaw-Q-A-Intelligent-Legal-Guidance


5. Interacting with the Chatbot:
   * Start interacting with the chatbot by typing your questions or context in the input field provided.
   * Each interaction alternates between user inputs (Human) and responses generated by the RAG system (AI).
   * The chat history is maintained and displayed in the Streamlit interface.
  
6. Application Structure
Components Used
* Streamlit: Frontend interface for the chatbot application.
* LangChain and Dependencies:
   * **langchain_huggingface** for Hugging Face model embeddings.
   * **langchain_groq** for integrating with the Groq API.      
   * **langchain_milvus** for storing and retrieving vectors using Milvus.
   * **langchain_cohere* for contextual compression reranking.
   *Other necessary libraries and modules for text processing and interaction.

7. Code Explanation
* The application uses Python with Streamlit for the user interface.
* Text preprocessing, vector embeddings, and retrieval mechanisms are handled using LangChain and associated modules.
* Milvus is employed for efficient vector storage and retrieval.
* The RAG system is implemented using a pipeline that combines contextual compression and model-based responses.

8. Additional Notes
* Ensure all required environment variables are set before running the application.
* Adjust configurations and parameters in app.py as per specific requirements or API keys.
